# local-history
Most people are aware of the social conditions in Britain during the Nineteenth Century. The graphic images of Children working in the mills and mines during this period are all too familiar. Most of us may have been taught at an early age about the industrial revolution, and so we link the Industrial revolution with Lancashire. A great deal of books, articles and social investigations have been published regarding the industrial revolution and in particular about child labour. A significant amount of this work has focused on the cities, towns, manufacturing and industry in the urban areas of Lancashire. We have given very little attention to the living conditions and the employment of children in the rural areas of Lancashire during this time span. “Historical studies concerning Lancashire’s history have been focused on the industry and manufacturing, as a result very little study has been carried out about Lancashire’s rural areas and in particular child labour.”   
There was nothing new about child labour.  Children took part in their parents occupation’s whether it was working on the farm or at home helping with the production of goods. Child labour was plentiful, and it was cheap. In the late eighteenth century, children aged between five and 14 comprised 20 percent of the population and during the long reign of Queen Victoria one out of every three of her subjects was under the age of fifteen .  In some parts of Lincolnshire and East Anglia there was a shortage of labour, so the farmers used gang masters.  These gangs used women and children to do most of the tedious and backbreaking jobs, such as clearing the ground of.
